---
author:
comments: true
date: 2004-02-12 10:47:00
layout: post
slug: list-time
title: List time
wordpress_id: 68
categories:
- Entertainment
---

In a stunning meld of geekery and glory, we take advantage of a new feature in Tinderbox to bring you my predictions for the Oscars. I've never taken this sort of thing seriously before, but Ruth and Luigi have apparently competed for years, and now I'm ensnared in their web of high intrigue and low gossip. Better yet, the New Straits Times yesterday helpfully printed a checklist of all the nominations in the classes that matter. So here we go.

  * Best Picture: Lord of the Rings. Haven't seen it, don't care to, doesn't deserve it, but ...

  * Best Director: Clint Eastwood or Sofia Coppola. Can't decide. Mystic River and Lost in Translation were both superb. Oh, OK, if I must … Sofia Coppola.

  * Best Actor: Bill Murray. I've said it [before](http://jeremycherfas.net/wp/archives/2004/01/11/out-on-a-limb/) and I'll say  it again. He must win.

  * Best Supporting Actor: Tim Robbbins, as above. On the other hand I'm, worried about his refusal to be cowed by Janet Jackson's breast.

  * Best Actress: Haven't seen any of them. Not one. Guessing, Diane Keaton. (Come back Annie Hall, all is forgiven).

  * Best Supporting Actress: I've only seen Mystic River, but from the buzz I reckon Renï¿½e Zellweger has to be where the smart money goes.


As for the rest, who knows? Except that I am thrilled to see _A kiss at the end of the rainbow_ from A Mighty Wind is in the reckoning. Might even win, if the Academicians are as nostalgic as I am. 
